docs: Add GCP service account guide (#547)
devopness/devopness: docs/cloud-providers-credentials/generate-gcp-service-account-credentials.md

---

> title: Generating Google Service Account Credentials

Author: in this documentation I am using the verb "generate" to describe how to get the credentials of a GCP service account in Google Cloud Console, it doesn't seem to make sense to use something like "Add", since the documentation to actually add the credential in Devopness can be found in https://github.com/devopness/devopness/blob/main/docs/cloud-providers/add-cloud-providers-credentials.md

> title: Generating Google Service Account Credentials

Author: Using `get` so it represents the the process to obtain GCP service account credentials

https://github.com/devopness/devopness/blob/614e3070a24c883a787e519c4821679fe2bbfc67/docs/cloud-provider-credentials/get-gcp-service-account-credentials.md?plain=1#L2

intro: In order to allow Devopness to manage Google Cloud resources for you, you need to provide us Service Account Credentials.
links:
    overview:
      - /docs/cloud-providers/credentials/index
    quickstart:
    previous:
    next:
    guides:
    related:
    featured:
---

# Generating Service Account Credentials

1. Access your GCP project or [create a new project on GCP](https://cloud.google.com/resource-manager/docs/creating-managing-projects)
2. Select the `Service Accounts` option under `IAM & Admin` on the navigation menu
3. If you do not have a service account, follow [instructions on GCP docs to create a service account key](https://cloud.google.com/iam/docs/creating-managing-service-account-keys)
4. Provide the `Cumpute Instance Admin (v1)` and `Service Account Manager` roles to your service account
5. To your choosen service account, select the `Manage keys` option
6. Select the `ADD KEY -> Create new key -> JSON`

> 7. A JSON file containing your service account credentials will be downloaded, it's content will be the input to Devopness Cloud Credentials form field

Reviewer: Until here users were logged into GCP console, correct? So how to finish the process of adding the credential to their Devopness account?

---
title: Generate Google Service Account Credentials
intro: In order to allow Devopness to manage Google Cloud resources for you, you need to provide us Service Account Credentials.
links:
    overview:
        - /docs/cloud-providers/credentials/index
    quickstart:
    previous:
    next:
        - /docs/cloud-providers/add-cloud-providers-credentials
    guides:
    related:
    featured:
---

# Generate Service Account Credentials

> 1. Access your GCP project or [create a new project on GCP](https://cloud.google.com/resource-manager/docs/creating-managing-projects) on Google Cloud console

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Access a GCP project or create a new one: https://console.cloud.google.com/project
```

Author: Suggestion accepted: https://github.com/devopness/devopness/blob/614e3070a24c883a787e519c4821679fe2bbfc67/docs/cloud-provider-credentials/get-gcp-service-account-credentials.md?plain=1#L17
